We report the case of a 28-year old woman, diagnosed with a left adnexal mass in a context of pelvic pain that appeared 2 months earlier. First ultrasonography revealed a 4 cm pelvic mass suspected to be a uterine fibroid. Pelvic MRI reported a 10 cm left adnexal mass with a poly-lobed aspect associated to a cystic portion with a mucinous borderline epithelial part. The carbohydrate Antigen 125 (CA125) blood rate was 237UI/ml and the Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) blood rate was 37.6ng/ml.
She first underwent laparoscopic left adnexectomy and left iliac adenopathy resection surgery. The histological analysis revealed a 15 cm ovarian clear cell carcinoma with ruptured capsule associated to a 7 cm satellite nodule inside the mesosalpinx. The analysis of five iliac lymph nodes was normal. A multidisciplinary discussion resulted in a contralateral adnexectomy with hysterectomy, pelvic and lombo-aortic node dissection, appendectomy, omentectomy and peritoneal biopsy decision. The histological analysis  confirmed that it was an ovarian clear cell carcinoma stage IIB in the FIGO 2014 classification.1 Six cycles of carboplatin and paclitaxel were started after surgery. Because of the young age at diagnosis, the patient was referred to a cancer geneticist. Germline BRCA1/2 targeted sequencing was first performed2 and showed no pathogenic or probably pathogenic variant. The ovarian tumor was microsatellite stable (MSS) and the Mismatch-Repair (MMR) proteins immunostaining showed normal expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 and PMS2.
The patient had no noteworthy personal medical history. Her mother underwent total thyroid resection and  died at age 33 of a metastatic left breast cancer (invasive ductal carcinoma). Sister III.2 (Figure 1) presented abdominal subcutaneous nodular lesions (probably lipoma). She was diagnosed with an endometrial adenocarcinoma at age 28 and also underwent total thyroidectomy because of thyroid nodules with microcalcifications. To be noticed, sister II.2 had learning disability. Sister II.5 presented left lobe thyroid cysts. Two sisters (III.2 and III.5) and one niece (IV.1) presented macrocephaly. The clinical examination of the patient we report here highlighted macrocephaly (63 cm; +5 SD), ear and back trichilemmomas, oral papillomatosis and acral keratosis (Figure 2). Further exploration of the family medical history revealed that a pathogenic PTEN variant may have already been identified in her maternal family but ascertained genetic data were not available. The association of specific cutaneous lesions, macrocephaly and family history led to PTEN sequencing. This analysis revealed that the patient carried a germline pathogenic variant in exon 5 c.388C>T, p.(Arg130*) (NM_000314) responsible for Cowden Syndrome (CS). Cascade family testing and ex post facto retrieval of genetic family data confirmed that this PTEN variant was maternally inherited. The ovarian cell immunohistochemistry analysis reported a total loss of PTEN expression, which supported PTEN involvement in this cancer (Figure 3).
A biopsy of a subcutaneous nodule revealed an epidermal cyst. Eight months after extensive second surgery, no evolutive tumor was found on a follow-up Chest-Abdomen-Pelvis CT-scan. However, a PET-scan displayed increased metabolic activity in the L3 vertebra and in the right thyroid lobe. A Spine MRI did not show any suspicious lesion. A thyroid ultrasound revealed a right lobe nodule, category 4B in Thyroid Imaging, Reporting And Data System (TIRADS). A fine-needle nodule puncture resulted in a diagnosis of follicular thyroid neoplasia (Type IV Bethesda Classification). A total thyroid resection instead of thyroid lobectomy was then recommended because of the PTEN mutation. In addition, a micro-vesicular adenoma and two micro-nodules with polymorphic vesicles were identified on the whole resected specimen.
After thyroidectomy, a levothyroxine substitution therapy and a local estrogenic treatment were started.  Cancer risk follow-up monitoring  was explained to the patient and then implemented, based on the French and NCCN CS guidelines3,4 . Although annual mammography and breast MRI screening was a medically indicated option, the patient considered to undergo a prophylactic bilateral mastectomy a few months after diagnosis. This option was validated by a cancer multidisciplinary discussion group, especially considering the Cowden syndrome diagnosis and her family history. At the time of writing, bilateral mastectomy has not been done yet. Meanwhile, annual breast MRI and mammography were performed. Colonoscopy every 3 to 5 years, renal ultrasonography every 2 years and annual dermatologic examinations were implemented. Three years after the  OCCC diagnosis, the patient was healthy and no additional tumor event had occurred.
